Hello and welcome to this python is its oil.
And mostly welcome to beginning the very beginning of our implementation.
So here we are back in spider and now the second step we need to do is to import the library with which
we will import data set because you actually have two ways of importing.
Set that one is with the open function which is already built in function available right now.
No need to import any library.
But that's a new recommendation I give you to import and manage data sets in Python the best library
by far is the Penders library.
And this is what we're going to import right now and to import a library in Python you need to start
with import and then you need to add here the name of the library which is Penders.
And then you can give it a shortcut name.
And the classic shortcut name we always give to Penders is Peetie and that's it.
And by the way that's the only library we'll need for this implementation and we can.
I like to structure my code in different code sections so we can just here specify that we are importing
the libraries.
And of course I'm putting this in a comment right so importing the library's import Pender's as PD.
I can already show you how to execute the line of code here I just pressed command plus shift plus left
to select the whole line in one shot.
And now you can just press command or control plus enter to execute this line.
And here we go.
Pandurs with us.
Great.
So that's a first Adam them and now the next step of course is to import this datasets.
So here we go.
New code section.
Importing.
This time the dataset.
So how do we import a data set with Penders.
Well here we are dealing with an excel file and Pender's which is a library contains lots of functions
and one of them is the read underscore Excel function which as you might guess is a function used to
import an excel file and so to use this function well first we are going to introduce a new variable
because we will put this dataset in this variable and this variable.
I always like to call it data set because I always like to give meaningful names to my variables so
that we know what we are dealing with.
So data set equals.
And now that's when bandas comes into play because that's when we use depends.
Library that has a shortcut name PD and from this library we take separated by a duck.
The function that we're going to use to import our Excel data sets in.
As you can see this is this one read underscore Excel.
So I just pressed enter and I wanted to add some parenthesis and then quote and inside the quotes you
just need to type the name of the is it and that is false.
Five times to underscore Peepy.
X x x.
Perfect.
I think it's spelled correctly.
Now let's have a look at what it does.
We are going to select that line and press command control plus enter to execute.
Perfect.
The data set is now important.
Let's have a look and that's where variable x for now comes into play.
Because let's click on this.
And here we go.
We have our data set let's double click on it and we have a much more user friendly way to look at our
dataset.
We can clearly see the four features here temperatures.
The exhaust vacuum the engine pressure and the humidity and with these four variables all the data here
we predict the energy all right.
So keep in mind very important to understand the difference.
These are the four independent variables and this is the dependent variable dependent variable is the
variable that you predict.
Thanks to the independent variables.
All right.
OK then that's not all.
We imported the data set.
That's a good step done.
But now what we need to do is to separate in two variables the independent variables and the dependent
variable.
We have to put them separately independent variables will be in an array and then invariable will be
in the vector and that's our next step here to create these two variables.
And usually we call our array of independent variables x and then you will see the dependent variable.
Y.
All right so now how do we get these independent variables.
Basically we're going to get them this way.
We're going to take our data set and then we're going to take the first four columns because the independent
variables that has the features the predictors of the dependent variable here are the first four comes
here.
So we're going to play with the indexes of the data set to get these four columns.
And now the next thing you must know about bison is that indexes and Python started 0.
So basically what we need to take our index is 0 1 2 and 3.
So you could take them this way by taking the index is 0 1 2 and 3.
But there is actually a better way.
The better way is to take all the columns except the last one.
And so you'll see that we will take the range of indexes from the first one up to the end except the
last one here and I'll show you how to do this right now.
So OK.
Therefore here first since we are taking a subset of the data set well to take the subset we have to
take the dataset first and then remember we are going to get the columns we want by playing with the
indexes by getting their indexes and to get these indexes.
We're going to use the AILA function.
I lock eyes for index and luck is four locate we can locate the columns we want.
Thanks to the indexes.
So I look you add some brackets and that's where you specify which indexes of the lines and columns
you want to take.
So first you have to start by the lines.
That's the classic way of reading a matrix or an array.
You know you always have the index of the line first and then separated by a comma.
The index of the column.
And so since we basically want to take all the data well we want to take all the lines.
And by the way there are a lot of lines I think there are 10000 lines but we want to take all the lines
and the trick to do that is to add here a column by just adding a column.
Here we specify that we're taking the first line up to the last line and then you have to specify the
indexes of the columns you want to take.
And as we understood these are all the indexes except for the last one and there is actually a trick
to get all these indexes except for the last one.
It's to take the range from the first index up to the last index because in Python the upper bound of
a range is excluded.
Therefore by getting the last index as the upper end of the range Well we will get all these indexes
except for the last one and that's exactly what we want to do.
And remember I told you I want to make a code that works for every data set regardless of the number
of columns.
Well we're going to get the last index the following way.
Not by specifying index 4 because this has an x 4 Remember 0 1 2 3 and 4.
But by taking the index minus one the index minus one is exactly the index of the last column of your
data set.
And so what I'm going to do here is specify the range of indexes.
I want to take.
Which is the range from 0 up to the last index which is minus 1 Make sure to understand and remember
why this works.
That's because the upper bound of arr. is excluded and therefore this index here in this range from
zero to the last index of the kinds of ideas that is excluded and therefore we're going from the beginning
because the lower bound is included up to the end except the last column and that's the trick to get
everything in there is even another trick it's to not even specify the zero because by default the first
index taken here is the index zero.
And now to finish you know we have to specify that we want to take the values of the cells in the dataset
and to do this you simply need to add here that value is perfect.
Now let's try this.
Let's execute this line of code.
Here we go x an array of nine thousand five hundred sixty eight lines and four columns all of type float
64.
And that's because the data or independent variables are all sluts.
So let's double click on this and let's have a look at our what we call matrix of features or matrix
and independent variables.
Here we go.
We have exactly the first four columns of our data set with temperature to vacuum the pressure and the
humidity.
Perfect.
So now what we have to do is get separately as we said the dependent variable.
And to do this it's very simple it's almost the same.
So that's why I'm copying this paste.
We're going to give another name to the variable that will get this deep and variable that is energy.
Same we're taking the last column from our data set.
Then we're going to use a lock function to get the index of the cone we want first.
We also want to take all the lines for sure.
And now that's where things change.
We're not taking the range of the index from the beginning up to the end excluding the last index.
But we simply want to get the last index in self and according to you what is it going to be.
Remember where I said before minus 1 is the index of the last column which is exactly what we want.
So here if I add minus 1.
Well it will get only the last column and we now understand why what we do here works for any data dataset
regardless of the number of features in the dataset.
Because this will always take all the columns except the last one.
And here it will always take the last column.
The only thing you need to make sure is that your dataset contains first independent variables and the
dependent variable.
In the last column.
All right.
Now let me show you this.
I'm going to select this line and execute.
Here we go.
We must now have the depend variables that is energy.
Yes that's exactly what we have.
So I'm going to show you a final representation of everything we created.
But I'm just going to fast forward here because it's going to take me two minutes I'm preparing here
a nice display are I would go.
So this is the data set.
This is our array of independent variables and this is our vector of dependent variable.
And so here we go we can clearly see that the independent variables are in X the dependent variable
is in Y.
So everything's all good.
We are ready to move on to the next step which will be to split the dataset into the training set and
a test set.
I'll explain that in the next Statoil.
And until then enjoy the science.